Add docs for placement rules in SQL (#6618)
pingcap/docs: sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-placement-policy.md

---
title: ALTER PLACEMENT POLICY
summary: The usage of ALTER PLACEMENT POLICY in TiDB.
---

# ALTER PLACEMENT POLICY

> > **Warning:**
> >
> > Placement Rules in SQL is an experimental feature. Syntax may change before its final release, and there may be bugs.
> > If you understand the risks, run `SET GLOBAL tidb_enable_alter_placement = 1;` to enable this experiment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Warning:**
>
> Placement Rules in SQL is an experimental feature. The syntax might change before its GA, and there might also be bugs.
>
> If you understand the risks, you can enable this experiment feature by executing `SET GLOBAL tidb_enable_alter_placement = 1;`.
```

`ALTER PLACEMENT POLICY` is used to modify existing placement policies that have previously been created. All the tables and partitions which use the placement policy will automatically be updated.

## Synopsis

```ebnf+diagram
AlterPolicyStmt ::=
    "ALTER" "PLACEMENT" "POLICY" IfExists PolicyName PlacementOptionList

PolicyName ::=
    Identifier

PlacementOptionList ::=
    DirectPlacementOption
|   PlacementOptionList DirectPlacementOption
|   PlacementOptionList ',' DirectPlacementOption

DirectPlacementOption ::=
    "PRIMARY_REGION" EqOpt stringLit
|   "REGIONS" EqOpt stringLit
|   "FOLLOWERS" EqOpt LengthNum
|   "VOTERS" EqOpt LengthNum
|   "LEARNERS" EqOpt LengthNum
|   "SCHEDULE" EqOpt stringLit
|   "CONSTRAINTS" EqOpt stringLit
|   "LEADER_CONSTRAINTS" EqOpt stringLit
|   "FOLLOWER_CONSTRAINTS" EqOpt stringLit
|   "VOTER_CONSTRAINTS" EqOpt stringLit
|   "LEARNER_CONSTRAINTS" EqOpt stringLit
```

## Examples

> **Note:**
>

> > See [`SHOW PLACEMENT LABELS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-placement-labels.md) to see which regions are available in your cluster.
> > If  you do not see any available, your TiKV installation might not have labels set correctly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> To know which regions are available in your cluster, see [`SHOW PLACEMENT LABELS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-placement-labels.md).
> If you do not see any available regions, your TiKV installation might not have labels set correctly.
```

> > If you do not see any available regions, your TiKV installation might not have labels set correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>
> If you do not see any available regions, your TiKV installation might not have labels set correctly.
```
